.. _Glossary:

===================
Glossary
===================

**Adapter or Converter:**

*Converter:* Converters change the voltage from one level to another, usually from 220/240V to 110/120V.

*Adapter:* adapter is a device that adapts the attributes of one electrical device or system to those of an otherwise incompatible device or system. Some modify power or signal attributes, while others merely adapt the physical form of one electrical connector to another.

**Command Line Interface (CLI):**

The command line or Windows command line is a user interface that is navigated by typing commands when prompted, instead of using the mouse.

**Degraded Data:**

*Decay of data in memory*

Known as soft errors or bit rot, decay of data in memory can occur when the small electric charge of a dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) disperses. Memory can also be altered by other high-energy particles.

*Decay of storage media*

Data degradation can also be used to describe the phenomenon of storage media gradually decaying over the duration of many years. Common factors of storage media decay include sun exposure, dust, temperature, humidity, and other macro-environmental factors. For more information on ideal storage conditions for magnetic media, please see the Image Permanence Institute `Media Storage Quick Reference Guide <https://www.imagepermanenceinstitute.org/webfm_send/301>`_.

**Deviceless Mode:**

Deviceless Mode means that the user can work on raw files without having to go through the Kryoflux hardware. The DTC will function like a virtual machine and will be able to read proprietary STREAM or DRAFT files. See :ref:`Using Deviceless Mode<>` for more information.

**Disk Image:**

A disk image is a perfect representation of the structure and contents of a storage device generated by the creation of a sector-by-sector copy of the source medium. It is system independent.

**DRAFT files:**

DRAFT FILES simply store the signals read from a disk. The interpretation of those signals is up to the application processing the file. All data is preserved at forensic quality in DRAFT, but it is a transient storage format, unlike a STREAM file format.

*What’s the difference between DRAFT vs STREAM?*

The only difference between a STREAM file and a DRAFT file is that DRAFT is a one-file only image that is fit for transient storage while STREAM files comprised a group of files that represent signals from each tracks. Both are of forensic quality.

**DTC:**
The Kryoflux’s Disk Tool Console, the command line application that sits underneath the Kryoflux’s GUI. As the tool’s underlying technology, DTC offers some added functionality and flexibility that might recommend it over the GUI in some instances. See :ref:`GUI vs. DTC<>` for more information.

**Encoding Formats:**

Encoding formats are information processing systems that convert raw data into a readable output. Encoding allows the circulation of data by giving instructional keys to a computer program to input, process and output data through a series of particular patterns. However, without the proper “reading keys” formatted content can be inaccessible. Kryoflux bypasses this problem by 1) providing a wide range of decoding tools/formats; and 2) preserving the magnetic flux of a disk rather than trying to output encoded data. See :ref:`Disk Image Formats<>` for more information.

**Formatted Image:**

A formatted image is an image file that is produced to be readable according to a certain encoding format. A formatted disk image means that the image can be visible through the standards associated with a specific processing system.

**Legacy Floppy Disks:**

A legacy device is a computing device that is outdated or no longer in production. Finding the right peripheral controller interfaces (PCI) for the device can be hard. The device might require manual configuration and jumper installation.

**PSU:**

Power Supply Unit (power cable).

**Raw Magnetic Fluxes (floppy):**

A floppy disk is a magnetic storage medium that can contain a certain number of reversals in magnetic flux, or the magnetic field of a given area. It includes the storage space itself, and a drive head that finds or makes polarity shifts on the disk, which are interpreted as computer code by the floppy disk drive. This means that the floppy drive would detect a change in the magnetic flux (interpreted as a 1) or no change (interpreted as a 0). Depending on the size of the disk, the fluxes are recorded at different speeds. These changes in magnetic flux represent the data stored on the floppy disk. Magnetic fluxes stored on a disk must be read exactly as written so that different drives detect the same changes, and can interpret the data in the same way.

**Sectors:**

A sector is a segment on a diskette or the disk where data is located.This division is a way to divide and organize the data on the disk or diskette so that it can be retrieved easily by read or write heads. Each sector is assigned a number and is combined with another number associated to the concentric rings that make up the tracks.

The smallest unit of storage is Sector 0 and it contains a FAT (file allocation table), which is a chart of numbers that correspond to cluster addresses on the drive.

**STREAM format (proprietary):**

The proprietary STREAM format reads the flux transition timing and index signal timing from the raw magnetic fluxes and encodes them in a specific standard. This standard recognizes the "stream file" as "one continuous stream of bytes." In other words, there's a start of the file, and an end to the file, but nothing else is defined (for floppy disks, however, temporal measures are part of the raw magnetic fluxes, and need to be taken into account when imaging). Stream files are reusable and allow you to create new disk images based on different encoding formats without re-reading the physical media, so your legacy media will not be compromised by being physically read too many times. See :ref:`KryoFlux Stream Files<>` for more information.

*\* Kryoflux stream files, preservation*

The software validates the data read against the constraints normally used by generic MFM controllers/formats. If the decoder finds the data to be faulty, the software retries reading the track until the read is correct or there are no more retries allowed.

*\* Kryoflux stream files, format guided*

The software records only tracks that would be normally used by the guide format. This is just for your records; think of it as logging the data the software processed for future reference. Using stream files this way does NOT set preservation parameters, but sampling is much faster.

*What’s the difference between DRAFT vs STREAM?*

The only difference between a STREAM file and a DRAFT file is that DRAFT is a one-file only image that is fit for transient storage while STREAM files comprised a group of files that represent signals from each tracks. Both are of forensic quality.

**Tracks:**

The magnetic media inside a blank floppy disk is coated with magnetic oxide, with particles in no magnetic order. Formatting the disk aligns these particles into a pattern of tracks, which are concentric rings where data is stored, with empty space between the rings. This also represents the structure the stored data follows. Until the mid-1980s, floppy disks had 40 tracks, but the space between tracks halved as technology changed, so 80 tracks could fit onto one disk.

Each track is further divided into sectors, which represent locations where data is stored.
